README.md, before:

# Taxi Revenue and Trip Analysis Dashboard

This project uses data from New York Taxi trips to visualize key metrics, including average revenue per mile and the number of trips over time. The data is fetched from Google BigQuery, and the dashboard is built using Dash and Plotly.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

This dashboard allows users to interactively explore taxi trip data from New York. The application:

- Fetches data from Google BigQuery.
- Displays graphs showing the relationship between revenue per mile and the number of trips over time.
- Provides an interactive date range filter to customize the data displayed.

The project leverages the following technologies:
- **Dash**: A framework for building interactive web applications.
- **Plotly**: A graphing library for creating interactive charts.
- **Google BigQuery**: A cloud-based data warehouse to run SQL queries.

## Requirements

Before running the project, ensure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.7+
- Google Cloud SDK (for BigQuery authentication)
- Docker (if using Docker setup)

You will need the following Python dependencies:
- `dash`
- `plotly`
- `pandas`
- `google-cloud`
- `python-dotenv`

These dependencies are listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

## Installation Instructions

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/valenrami5/kiwibot-docker.git
   cd kiwibot-docker
2. Install the Python dependencies:

 ```bash
Copiar
Editar
pip install -r requirements.txt
 ```
3. Set up your Google Cloud credentials

4. ## 🐳 Ejecutar la app con Docker (PowerShell)

Si estás usando **PowerShell en Windows**, puedes ejecutar la aplicación montando tus credenciales de Google Cloud con este comando multilínea:

```powershell
docker run `
  -p 8050:8050 `
  --env-file .env `
  -v "C:/Users/Valentina Ramirez/Documents/valen:/app/creds" `
  -e GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/app/creds/graceful-wall-864fbc06ae6c.json `
  kiwibot-app
```

### 📝 Explicación:

- `-p 8050:8050`: Expone la app en el puerto local 8050.
- `--env-file .env`: Carga variables de entorno desde tu archivo `.env`.
- `-v`: Monta la carpeta local que contiene tu archivo JSON de credenciales dentro del contenedor.
- `-e`: Define la variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` dentro del contenedor para que el cliente de BigQuery funcione correctamente.

> 🔒 **Nota de seguridad**: Es recomendable montar el archivo como volumen (`-v`) en lugar de copiarlo dentro de la imagen para evitar exponer tus credenciales.

---

 ## 📘 Code Explanation

### 🧩 Importing Libraries and Loading Configuration

The code begins by importing several libraries necessary for data manipulation, web development, and BigQuery interaction:

- `dotenv`: Loads environment variables from the `.env` file.
- `google.cloud.bigquery`: Connects to Google BigQuery to query data.
- `dash`: A framework for creating the web dashboard.
- `plotly.express` and `plotly.graph_objects`: Used for generating interactive visualizations.
- `pandas`: For data manipulation.

The environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is set using the `.env` file to authenticate with Google Cloud.

---

### 📊 Querying Data from BigQuery

The code queries BigQuery to get taxi trip data. It aggregates the data by trip date, calculating:

- The **average revenue per mile**.
- The **number of trips**.

The query results are stored in a Pandas `DataFrame` (`df`).

Another query fetches a subset of data for basic analysis, such as:

- Average fare amount
- Average trip distance
- Total earnings
- Total number of trips

---

### 🖥️ Building the Dashboard

Using **Dash**, the code creates a web dashboard that displays:

- A `DatePickerRange` component for users to select a date range.
- A `Graph` component to display the data in an interactive plot.

The graph is updated dynamically based on the selected date range using a **callback function**. This function:

1. Takes the selected start and end dates.
2. Filters the data.
3. Updates the graph with:
   - A **line plot** for average revenue per mile.
   - A **bar plot** for the number of trips.

---

### 🎨 Plotly Graph Layout

The graph includes **two y-axes**:

- **Left Y-axis**: Represents the average revenue per mile (line).
- **Right Y-axis**: Represents the number of trips (bar).

The layout also includes:

- A white background theme (`plotly_white`).
- Custom legends and title.
- Responsive updates with user interaction.

---

### ▶️ Running the App

Finally, the Dash app runs on the local server:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8050
```

When executed, the interactive dashboard appears and reacts to user-selected date ranges.

---

### 🖼️ Generated Image / Visualization

The dashboard generates an interactive graph with the following features:

- **X-axis**: Trip dates — helps visualize trends over time.
- **Left Y-axis**: Average revenue per mile (shown as a **line**).
- **Right Y-axis**: Number of trips (shown as **bars**).

#### Example Interpretation:

- The **line graph** shows how revenue per mile changes day by day.
- The **bar graph** shows how many trips occurred on each date.

This visualization helps identify patterns in:

- Revenue trends.
- Trip volume behavior.

It is particularly useful for **business analytics** and **decision-making** in transportation and mobility services.

Commit message:

Update README.md docker json credentials mounting english

README.md, after:

# Taxi Revenue and Trip Analysis Dashboard

This project uses data from New York Taxi trips to visualize key metrics, including average revenue per mile and the number of trips over time. The data is fetched from Google BigQuery, and the dashboard is built using Dash and Plotly.

## Table of Contents

- [Project Description](#project-description)
- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Running the Application](#running-the-application)
- [Docker Setup](#docker-setup)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

This dashboard allows users to interactively explore taxi trip data from New York. The application:

- Fetches data from Google BigQuery.
- Displays graphs showing the relationship between revenue per mile and the number of trips over time.
- Provides an interactive date range filter to customize the data displayed.

The project leverages the following technologies:
- **Dash**: A framework for building interactive web applications.
- **Plotly**: A graphing library for creating interactive charts.
- **Google BigQuery**: A cloud-based data warehouse to run SQL queries.

## Requirements

Before running the project, ensure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.7+
- Google Cloud SDK (for BigQuery authentication)
- Docker (if using Docker setup)

You will need the following Python dependencies:
- `dash`
- `plotly`
- `pandas`
- `google-cloud`
- `python-dotenv`

These dependencies are listed in the `requirements.txt` file.

## Installation Instructions

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/valenrami5/kiwibot-docker.git
   cd kiwibot-docker
2. Install the Python dependencies:

 ```bash
Copiar
Editar
pip install -r requirements.txt
 ```
3. Set up your Google Cloud credentials

4.## 🐳 Running the App with Docker (PowerShell on Windows)

If you're using **PowerShell on Windows**, you can run the application by mounting your Google Cloud credentials with the following multi-line command:

```powershell
docker run `
  -p 8050:8050 `
  --env-file .env `
  -v "C:/Users/Valentina Ramirez/Documents/valen:/app/creds" `
  -e GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/app/creds/graceful-wall-864fbc06ae6c.json `
  kiwibot-app
```

### 📝 Explanation:

- `-p 8050:8050`: Exposes the app on your local port 8050.
- `--env-file .env`: Loads environment variables from your `.env` file.
- `-v`: Mounts your local folder containing the JSON credentials into the container.
- `-e`: Sets the `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` variable so BigQuery can authenticate properly.

> 🔒 **Security Note**: It’s best practice to mount the credentials file using a volume (`-v`) instead of copying it into the image to avoid exposing secrets.

---

⚠️ Make sure the `graceful-wall-864fbc06ae6c.json` file exists at the specified path. If your file has a different name or location, update the command accordingly.
---

 ## 📘 Code Explanation

### 🧩 Importing Libraries and Loading Configuration

The code begins by importing several libraries necessary for data manipulation, web development, and BigQuery interaction:

- `dotenv`: Loads environment variables from the `.env` file.
- `google.cloud.bigquery`: Connects to Google BigQuery to query data.
- `dash`: A framework for creating the web dashboard.
- `plotly.express` and `plotly.graph_objects`: Used for generating interactive visualizations.
- `pandas`: For data manipulation.

The environment variable `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` is set using the `.env` file to authenticate with Google Cloud.

---

### 📊 Querying Data from BigQuery

The code queries BigQuery to get taxi trip data. It aggregates the data by trip date, calculating:

- The **average revenue per mile**.
- The **number of trips**.

The query results are stored in a Pandas `DataFrame` (`df`).

Another query fetches a subset of data for basic analysis, such as:

- Average fare amount
- Average trip distance
- Total earnings
- Total number of trips

---

### 🖥️ Building the Dashboard

Using **Dash**, the code creates a web dashboard that displays:

- A `DatePickerRange` component for users to select a date range.
- A `Graph` component to display the data in an interactive plot.

The graph is updated dynamically based on the selected date range using a **callback function**. This function:

1. Takes the selected start and end dates.
2. Filters the data.
3. Updates the graph with:
   - A **line plot** for average revenue per mile.
   - A **bar plot** for the number of trips.

---

### 🎨 Plotly Graph Layout

The graph includes **two y-axes**:

- **Left Y-axis**: Represents the average revenue per mile (line).
- **Right Y-axis**: Represents the number of trips (bar).

The layout also includes:

- A white background theme (`plotly_white`).
- Custom legends and title.
- Responsive updates with user interaction.

---

### ▶️ Running the App

Finally, the Dash app runs on the local server:

```
http://127.0.0.1:8050
```

When executed, the interactive dashboard appears and reacts to user-selected date ranges.

---

### 🖼️ Generated Image / Visualization

The dashboard generates an interactive graph with the following features:

- **X-axis**: Trip dates — helps visualize trends over time.
- **Left Y-axis**: Average revenue per mile (shown as a **line**).
- **Right Y-axis**: Number of trips (shown as **bars**).

#### Example Interpretation:

- The **line graph** shows how revenue per mile changes day by day.
- The **bar graph** shows how many trips occurred on each date.

This visualization helps identify patterns in:

- Revenue trends.
- Trip volume behavior.

It is particularly useful for **business analytics** and **decision-making** in transportation and mobility services.
